Doc/git force (#24662)
matplotlib/matplotlib: doc/devel/development_workflow.rst

If it went wrong, recovery is again possible as explained :ref:`above
<recovering-from-mess-up>`.

If you have not yet pushed this branch to github, you can carry on as normal,
however if you *have* already pushed this commit see :ref:`force-push` for how
to replace your already published commits with the new ones.

.. _rebase-on-main:

Rebasing on ``upstream/main``
-----------------------------

> Let's say you thought of some work you'd like to do. You

Reviewer: (Not sure if I copy-edited the new or the old text...)

> Let's say you thought of some work you'd like to do. You

Author: You did some of both, but I took the trivial one to the old text.

:ref:`update-mirror-main` and :ref:`make-feature-branch` called
``cool-feature``. At this stage, ``main`` is at some commit, let's call it E.
Now you make some new commits on your ``cool-feature`` branch, let's call them
A, B, C. Maybe your changes take a while, or you come back to them after a
while. In the meantime, ``main`` has progressed from commit E to commit (say) G:

.. code-block:: none

          A---B---C cool-feature
         /
    D---E---F---G main

At this stage you consider merging ``main`` into your feature branch, and you

> remember that this here page sternly advises you not to do that, because the

Author: I'll take the `here` change, but would like to defer other copy editing to a follow on PR.

    git branch tmp cool-feature
    # rebase cool-feature onto main
    git rebase --onto upstream/main upstream/main cool-feature

In this situation, where you are already on branch ``cool-feature``, the last
command can be written more succinctly as::

    git rebase upstream/main

When all looks good you can delete your backup branch::

   git branch -D tmp

If it doesn't look good you may need to have a look at
:ref:`recovering-from-mess-up`.

If you have made changes to files that have also changed in ``main``, this may
generate merge conflicts that you need to resolve - see the `git rebase`_ man
page for some instructions at the end of the "Description" section. There is
some related help on merging in the git user manual - see `resolving a merge`_.

.. _git rebase: https://git-scm.com/docs/git-rebase
.. _resolving a merge: https://schacon.github.io/git/user-manual.html#resolving-a-merge

If you have not yet pushed this branch to github, you can carry on as normal,
however if you *have* already pushed this commit see :ref:`force-push` for how
to replace your already published commits with the new ones.

.. _force-push:

Pushing, with force
-------------------

> If you have in some way re-written already pushed history (e.g. via

Reviewer 2: I wonder about adding a picture here as well, so it is clear what we are talking about.  I find the pictures above really useful.    You'd need a bit of description, but that seems straight forward, and we could refer to the remote branch as `origin` which I assume is what 99.9% of people call the remote.  

```
.. code-block:: none

                   A' cool-feature
                  /
     D---A---B---C origin/cool-feature
```

Author: Adding the diagram but in the lines below so the diff did not make this auto resolve.

push the new commits to GitHub it will fail with an error that looks like ::

   $ git push
   Pushing to github.com:YOURFORK/matplotlib.git
   To github.com:YOURFORK/matplotlib.git
    ! [rejected]              cool_feature -> cool_feature (non-fast-forward)
   error: failed to push some refs to 'github.com:tacaswell/matplotlib.git'
   hint: Updates were rejected because the tip of your current branch is behind
   hint: its remote counterpart. Integrate the remote changes (e.g.
   hint: 'git pull ...') before pushing again.
   hint: See the 'Note about fast-forwards' in 'git push --help' for details.

What is going on is that by default ``git push`` tries to protect you from
accidentally discarding commits on the remote by rejecting the
push.  When this happens, GitHub adds the helpful suggestion to pull the remote
changes and then try pushing again.  In some cases, such as if you and a
colleague are both committing and pushing to the same branch, this is the
correct course of action (or rebase your local branch but it is a matter of
taste). 

However, in the case of having intentionally re-written history we *want* to discard the commits and  

> replace them with the new-and-improved versions from our local branch.  In these cases what we want to do is ::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
replace them with the new-and-improved versions from our local branch.  In these cases, what we want to do is ::
```

  $ git push --force-with-lease

which tells git you are aware of the risks and want to do the push anyway.  We
recommend using ``--force-with-lease`` over the ``--force`` flag.  The
``--force`` will do the push no matter what, whereas ``--force-with-lease``

> will only do the push of the remote branch is where the local ``git`` client

Reviewer: ```suggestion
will only do the push if the remote branch is where the local ``git`` client
```

.. _git rebase: https://git-scm.com/docs/git-rebase
.. _resolving a merge: https://schacon.github.io/git/user-manual.html#resolving-a-merge

If you have not yet pushed this branch to github, you can carry on as normal,
however if you *have* already pushed this commit see :ref:`force-push` for how
to replace your already published commits with the new ones.

.. _force-push:

Pushing, with force
-------------------

If you have in some way re-written already pushed history (e.g. via
:ref:`rewriting-commit-history` or :ref:`rebase-on-main`), then when you try to
push the new commits to GitHub it will fail with an error that looks like ::

   $ git push
   Pushing to github.com:YOURFORK/matplotlib.git
   To github.com:YOURFORK/matplotlib.git
    ! [rejected]              cool_feature -> cool_feature (non-fast-forward)
   error: failed to push some refs to 'github.com:tacaswell/matplotlib.git'
   hint: Updates were rejected because the tip of your current branch is behind
   hint: its remote counterpart. Integrate the remote changes (e.g.
   hint: 'git pull ...') before pushing again.
   hint: See the 'Note about fast-forwards' in 'git push --help' for details.

> What is going on is that by default ``git push`` tries to protect you from
> accidentally make commits inaccessible by leaving no reference to them so if a
> push *would* effectively discard commits on the remote, ``git`` rejects the
> push.  When this happens GitHub adds the helpful suggestion to pull the remote
> changes and then try pushing again.  In some cases, such as if you and a
> colleague are both committing and pushing to the same branch, this is the
> correct course of action (or rebase your local branch but it is a matter of
> taste).  Although both of things are good ideas, taken together they are not
> what we want to do.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
What is going on is that by default ``git push`` tries to protect you from
accidentally discarding commits on the remote by rejecting the
push.  When this happens, GitHub adds the helpful suggestion to pull the remote
changes and then try pushing again.  In some cases, such as if you and a
colleague are both committing and pushing to the same branch, this is the
correct course of action (or rebase your local branch but it is a matter of
taste). 
```

Author: They are the same, but I was trying not to use the same slightly long phrase twice in the same sentence so I used two different overly long phrases in the same sentence.

Reviewer 2: I think for technical writing reusing the same phrase for a single concept is usually good.    I once wrote a paper where I called the same phenomena three different names - it did not go well in review ;-)

> 
> In the case of having intentionally re-written history we *want* to make the
> commits on GitHub inaccessible and replace them with the new-and-improved versions
> on our local machines.  In these cases what we want to do is ::

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

However, in the case of having intentionally re-written history we *want* to discard the commits and  
replace them with the new-and-improved versions from our local branch.  In these cases what we want to do is ::
```

   hint: See the 'Note about fast-forwards' in 'git push --help' for details.

If this push had succeed then the commits ``A``, ``B``, and ``C`` would no
longer be referenced by any branch and be discarded.  By default ``git push``
helpfully tries to protect you from accidentally discarding commits by
rejecting the push to the remote.  When this happens, GitHub also adds the
helpful suggestion to pull the remote changes and then try pushing again.  In
some cases, such as if you and a colleague are both committing and pushing to
the same branch, this is a correct course of action.

However, in the case of having intentionally re-written history we *want* to
discard the commits on the remote and replace them with the new-and-improved
versions from our local branch.  In this case, what we want to do is ::

  $ git push --force-with-lease

which tells git you are aware of the risks and want to do the push anyway.  We
recommend using ``--force-with-lease`` over the ``--force`` flag.  The
``--force`` will do the push no matter what, whereas ``--force-with-lease``
will only do the push if the remote branch is where the local ``git`` client
thought it was.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

After the force-push, the tree example will be the same on both the local and ``origin`` branches and the old commits, ``A, B, C``, will be lost (though hopefully squashed into ``A'``):

```
.. code-block:: none

      D---A'---E cool-feature, origin/cool-feature
```

Reviewer 2: Totally optional - I was about to merge, but thought it would be nice to the back to the example.
